Akash | ECH: And we are livestreaming this meeting on Ethereum Protocol YouTube channel, so let me know whenever you are ready.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, no problem. Thank you.
Zane Starr: Mercy, if you're speaking, you're muted.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Oh, sorry, I was trying to share the link on the…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: On Discord. Good afternoon, everyone. Akash, I think we are ready. We're… can go now.
Akash | ECH: Yeah, we are live.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Good afternoon.
Zane Starr: Hey.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Good afternoon, so… Okay.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Welcome to ROPC Call 13. Today's days being 29th September 2025.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So… I don't have… we only have two things on the agenda, but if you want to, if you have anything… any other thing apart from what's on the agenda to talk about, feel free to also indicate.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: But, and that will be actually feedback on the error quotes. From my end, I don't have any feedback, because I feel like it's good to go, but we still need to share it with the… with other code devs to take a look at it.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: And… but I don't know if someone has any other thing in respect to the error codes that was posted this week. Last week, rather.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, hey everyone. Yeah, just to reiterate, I think the doc, or the README file I wrote, should be pretty self-explanatory, and should give you an idea to review. I'd really appreciate if you guys take a look at it.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And, Mercy, if you have any contacts, with different clients, and if you can help them forward it.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: and get some feedback, I'd really appreciate that. And, so we can… we can talk about what's the next steps, and how we can get this merged.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, so the reason why I pointed it out was I was hoping to…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: open it up here, then if anyone has an opinion on what needs to be changed, or what could be improved, then we'll talk about it here, then we'll make the changes, then we'll bring it out, we'll present it to the core developers to take a look at it.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I don't know if this… Alexis?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Oh yeah, definitely, sounds good. Yeah, I'll give it a couple of days, for anyone to comment.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And I can… I can post this on the Core Developer's channel.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: If that would make sense after a couple of days.
Zane Starr: Yeah, I think that would make sense. Just from, like, an outside, like, operational perspective.
Zane Starr: It seems like it might be good to do the presentation for everyone, at the core dev call, but it also seems like it would be
Zane Starr: Probably useful, because…
Zane Starr: I think the core dev, like, time that you have to discuss is so small and narrow.
Zane Starr: Right. To just be able to meet with different client teams, so if maybe Carrie or Mercy could make an introduction to…
Zane Starr: someone that's working on Aragon, or Nevermind, or any of the… or Baisu, even, if we could just take some time to talk with them, to just see, like, hey, does this track?
Zane Starr: That might be, like, useful in the interim before…
Zane Starr: The all-hands, so that way, like, people have a lot more time to, like.
Zane Starr: look at it, get feedback, etc, because I feel like otherwise we're gonna be in, like.
Zane Starr: little 5 to 10 minute chunks that people, like, see it for, like, 5 minutes on that one hour, but then not again for a while. And it's the kind of thing where
Zane Starr: Like, I think a lot of people might have just, like, a lot of weird private stuff going on.
Zane Starr: Yeah.
Zane Starr: not weird private stuff, but I mean, like, error codes and responses that are unexpected.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, so that's actually what I was thinking, but I wanted to, like.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: for us to discuss this in-house, in case of… we have any changes, so that we kind of, like, start changing it at hand, then we'll take it to the JSNROPC Discord, we'll tag some…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: attack, some core developers there, then if it is…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Looking promising, like, if there's improvement, or they give us a thumbs up on it.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: then taking it over to each client teams, and then maybe officially bringing it up again to the SED, the execution layer core, SEDE.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: But I know that it won't… they won't give us much time, but at least once we have, like, a reasonable feedback from each call… from each client team that is involved, we kind of, like, bring it more to a more, official ground. And then, even if it's 5 minutes, they're going to take a look at it. They will know that, okay, this is happening.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I don't know if that makes sense. But I just wanted us to, like, talk about it. What do we think? Do we have anything… any changes we want to incorporate? Do we have any idea, improvements, or something we need to improve on? So that it would be… let's do the hard work, so that it would be easier for the core developers to just… it won't take…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: a total change that will, like, take a whole lot of time. Let's just do the heavy lifting, so that when they look at it, they'll be like, oh, oh, this is good, and give us a thumbs up, then we can go ahead.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Does this make sense?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, we can… sorry, go ahead, Kerry.
keri: Oh, no, I was just gonna say, I think that makes sense, I can take a look. I haven't had a chance to look at it, but I can do that today or tomorrow.
keri: And then we can jumpstart.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Thank you, yeah.
Zane Starr: Sounds good.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So, about the ROPC compact, do we… I don't know, I was trying to look into it, but I'm not sure how to…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: properly,
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: contribute based on that? Is there, like, something we need to know for people that want to contribute? Because I think Sina did ask a question about it on the Discord also.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Kira, I think you're the best person to…
keri: For RBC Compact, I got a PR merged, last week, or actually just this morning, but I put in a PR, to…
keri: look for a spec-only flag. It was already existing in execution APIs, and now the RPC compat simulator respects that, so it's only… so, like, for us to make gas, we don't expect clients to
keri: Have the same, like, return the same values for the estimation of the gas, and so we only look at the keys.
keri: And so, there's a couple tests passing in Hive, and then we probably need to add a few
keri: spec only.
keri: flags on the execution API side.
keri: Do you have specific questions? Does that answer your question, or do you have other specific questions around the RPC Compass?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, so I did look at the…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: simulate, and then… but I wanted to know if there is… if there… is there a way to improve the filling, at least to get a reasonable number of passes in the test?
keri: Yeah, I'm still looking at that. Standardizing the error codes will help a lot. There's a lot of,
keri: Error code failures. And then…
keri: like, some of this stuff is just things that clients haven't gotten to. Like, the block timestamp was just added not too long ago for each, like, Git logs.
keri: And…
keri: GEF has it, but no one else does, sort of thing. And then SimulateV1 is the other kind of big one that everyone…
keri: is failing, except Geth. And I think that's, I think it's…
keri: Sort of a lack of consensus across plants, But…
keri: Yeah, I think those are kind of the big ones.
keri: That we need to address.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, thank you.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Hello, Luca. I don't know… I think we have a client sitting over here.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: So I will just… I will drop the link to the error codes, file.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: if you can get anybody from Nethermine to take a look at it and maybe give us a feedback on this, this is what we've been working on.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Good afternoon, Luca, I don't know if you can hear me.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yes, I can hear you, I will take a look.
Zane Starr: Are you familiar with the error codes, like…
Zane Starr: ARC that, we've been jamming on?
Łukasz Rozmej: With error codes what? Sorry, didn't get that.
Zane Starr: So we've been working on, grouping the error codes, so there's a way within the spec
Zane Starr: To be able to specify, like, what is a valid error code range.
Zane Starr: And so, what we're trying to do is reserve ranges of error codes for the SPAC or execution APIs to be able to officially use.
Zane Starr: So, as a client, if you had some error code that was, like, beyond like that, you could safely use, like, this range for returning back a custom error code.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay.
Zane Starr: So we're trying to standardize the errors. Maybe, Sims, if you wanted to step through it really quickly?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, no, he pretty much summarized it. So the goal is, for the cross clients, to return, a dependable error code, that, that the clients or DApps or anyone can rely on, rather than looking at the string
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: of what the error is. Sometimes even that's really vague, right?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So, we wanted to have standardized usage of error codes. Currently, it's pretty much non-existent. For that, the proposal, you know, is looking to reserve some error
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: codes per category. We've split it into categories. We can add more category, we can remove it, modify it, based on the feedback, but the goal is to
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: you know, reserve some error codes per category, and also predefine, the numbers to certain errors. For example, let's say nonce too low should always return
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Say, 001, something like that. Which means…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: any… you can return any error string, but the error code will still be similar, just like in Web2 world. People can reliably start using these error codes slowly, and, you know, will be a better cross-chain, cross-client.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: experience for everyone. So that's the goal of the proposal.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And, really would appreciate if you can take a look at it, provide any sort of feedback.
Łukasz Rozmej: Got it. Yeah, makes sense.
Łukasz Rozmej: So, maybe feedback from my side as a person who, for example, sometimes fixed some things that we were doing different on GEF?
Łukasz Rozmej: Wow.
Łukasz Rozmej: That's… sometimes it… the hard thing is not maybe that there is an error code of… of certain,
Łukasz Rozmej: Value, but the problem is that when this error code should be used, And things like,
Łukasz Rozmej: to higher, none to low is fairly… maybe… Maybe it's not even self-explanatory, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: And sometimes there is also, like, an order of validations, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: And this order of validations can also be different per client.
Łukasz Rozmej: are things that… so, in similar
Łukasz Rozmej: You can get different error code.
Łukasz Rozmej: Right. And sometimes… sometimes even, like.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, some things end up in the same buckets in one client, which you get the same error code, but different buckets in other clients when you can get the different error codes. And those things are harder. Not just the existence of error codes, but where, like…
Łukasz Rozmej: exact… exactly specified which error code should be returned where, or, which error code
Łukasz Rozmej: poten… maybe less important, but what, order of the error codes should be validated, right? Things like that are also…
Łukasz Rozmej: Problematic between the clients sometimes.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: No, very true, and a great point, too. Actually, last week when I was modifying a few stuff, I also noticed that. The non-stool can be returned directly from mempool for certain clients. Certain clients do that at the consensus level, especially, let's say, some L2s.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Few changes to that, too. It's a great point, but, with this provision, we can actually add non-too-low in both categories. Let's say you can add at, mempool level, you can say 001 non-too-low is mempool level, non-too-low, and we can also go and add it into consensus level, because
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: We still have flexibility. We haven't used the anterior ranges. If you want to go back and add it to the ranges, we can also extend the range.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: We can keep adding it, so now the users will actually know exactly where this non-studulo is happening. If it's happening at the consensus level, or if it's happening at the mempool level.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So even they can react to these different sort of, hierarchy of validations on the client side. So we still have provisions for that. But we haven't defined these overlapping error codes yet in the example
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Or the proposal we have raised right now, but we can definitely add it without causing any confusions.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: that's… that's why we have grouping, error grouping. We have, like, mempool, we have execution client errors, we have consensus errors, we have network errors. We can, again, also add more grouping, or reduce grouping, or split grouping, based on how we want, but the overall
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: general idea applies to pretty much every single client, because they have a mempool, they have a consensus, they have a execution layer, so that's how we are facing these classifications on. So, we can still add these overlapping errors into different categories.
Łukasz Rozmej: Mmm.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: That made sense.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, got it, got it.
Łukasz Rozmej: Maybe it would benefit from a more explicit
Łukasz Rozmej: spec when this should be thrown, right? So, for example, What is, non-studulow for… Transaction pool, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: probably based on chain head, etc, right? If… if the…
Łukasz Rozmej: So, for example, I would say, like, proper spec would be… Well… that this… Tates…
Łukasz Rozmej: That the nouns for the address of, Sender of the transaction.
Łukasz Rozmej: Right?
Łukasz Rozmej: that is already in the state based on the current block, current, fork choice updated head, right? Message from the fork choice update, head. Nonce is smaller than,
Łukasz Rozmej: Right? Smaller than provider, right? Yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: a bit more verbose, what exactly does it mean? Okay, for nonstoolau, it's…
Łukasz Rozmej: pretty obvious, but there are, especially in ETH call, let's say, scenarios.
Łukasz Rozmej: There can be really custom… not custom, but really more complex, scenarios where this verbosity would be,
Łukasz Rozmej: Nice to have.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Oh yeah, that's a really valid feedback. Would really also appreciate if you can point me to some. This is me coming from directly using, let's say, a client perspective rather than a protocol perspective.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Working with multiple chains, so we… I went ahead and tested a lot of different chains, checking what is the value they written back to the client or the users in the JSON RPC.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: and that pretty much aligned with what the spec I have written right now, but definitely we can add any of these overlapping messages, too. And, more to say that we don't want to, you know, restrict users on returning any sort of
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: String-based error messages.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: That is up to the user or clients to define, whoever is going to adopt the spec, but we'll just hold the number. So, we will know if we get anything between, let's say, 001 to 0010, it's going to be gas errors, which means we can sort of manage.
Łukasz Rozmej: No.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yes, and cool.
Łukasz Rozmej: Especially on things like reverts, etc, users are relying on messages.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, yeah, we have execution errors specifically defined class category, which means it is coming directly from execution clients, which is sort of telling the users, hey, this is coming from execution layer, you cannot have automated logic on top, go and check the error messages and act manually.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But if it's a gas-based error, which, if I get, by default, I can, you know, try and bump the gas, or try and, you know, bump the nonce, try and bump the gas limit to, you know, make sure the transaction goes through, which can be an automated process, rather than…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: it's a retryable logic rather than always failing logic. So that's how I'm trying to classify and also give more room for both clients and users to initially see how the specs spread out.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Rather than being too restrictive and too instructive to the clients, hey.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: You have to use this sort of error message for this error code, and, you know,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Just… just follow the spec.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: To the .NT. So the cold right now is, like, let's see if I do noncerror, and if it's going to be 8001. If you want another noncerror in execution layer, if you still want to return it to the user directly without having a filter on top, you can add it to the execution layer and still return it.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But you'll have… for the users, they will start looking at the spec, they'll see, hey, okay, I see non-too-low error, both in mempool as well as in execution, so I need to do validation for these two and react to these errors in a way that I want to.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So it was also a little expandable in that, in that sense.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, I won't go into details, but I can point you to one of the PRs we recently did that can, for example, help you with understanding some of the problems we have with aligning to GAF, right? Awesome. Because the problem for us is also, like, there was no spec, so GEF is the spec.
Łukasz Rozmej: And in order to, you know… and then someone complains, that's okay, they get different, for example, error messages, and…
Łukasz Rozmej: The only way to do it is try to,
Łukasz Rozmej: reverse engineer gaffe, right? Of how the message is… and this is exactly a point…
Łukasz Rozmej: where I think this kind of thing happened, and it actually… wasn't… A completely straightforward,
Łukasz Rozmej: Thing. It was also about reverse here, I think, a bit.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: I see. No, this is very helpful. I'm gonna actually look into this and see if I can incorporate this into the example.
Łukasz Rozmej: Because we went from some two-state,
Łukasz Rozmej: two-state results that we're returning something deeply from EVM to free-state results, let's say. And depending on that, we had to, adjust the error, but I think this is more smoothly for ETH get call.
Łukasz Rozmej: If I'm correct. There's also an issue for that, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: So, those are the most hard things to, to, to get aligned on, because, like.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, sure, non-to-low, which is a static check that you do before even going to EVM, is relatively easy.
Łukasz Rozmej: To standardize.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: No, yeah, definitely agree. Yeah, we can discuss this, offline, too. This is really helpful. I'll take a look at the PR and see if I can also use that in the… or previous serve for your use case.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But, the main goal here is, whatever error being returned to the users or dApps or client, on a JSON RPC level.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Should be…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: categorize and classified, so people can start relying on error codes rather than messages, rejects, and stuff. But yeah, definitely we'll take a look at this. Thank you so much.
Łukasz Rozmej: I think, like, this is somewhat already done in the clients, like, the easier…
Łukasz Rozmej: errors are somewhat standardized. Again, probably the devil is in the details, and, like, if it's 80% standardized and 20%
Łukasz Rozmej: Not, it's still, problematic. Yeah, but that's my… At least on Nevermind,
Łukasz Rozmej: feeling that this… this is mostly, especially the simple errors, the static… let's say the static errors, which are, you know, right there on the surface that you can validate on the surface level without going deeper into, into the…
Łukasz Rozmej: The calls that you have some… that you have propagated back from something… somewhere deeper.
Łukasz Rozmej: Right. In the architecture. Those are relatively easy and mostly done, but again, I haven't looked into Rev, or Aragon, or Bezo that deeply, so…
Łukasz Rozmej: Maybe that's only… but I expect they have… similar experience.
Zane Starr: Do you have any thoughts on,
Zane Starr: Being able to, like, list out or investigate the dynamic calls that may throw back, different errors.
Zane Starr: Yeah.
Zane Starr: What would be your…
Łukasz Rozmej: That's a good question, probably…
Łukasz Rozmej: The best way would be… to…
Łukasz Rozmej: go through an implementation, like GEF?
Łukasz Rozmej: And, find all the errors there.
Łukasz Rozmej: And create a test for each one.
Łukasz Rozmej: And then try them… try those tests on different clients.
Łukasz Rozmej: Let's see what happens.
Łukasz Rozmej: Right? And that would show you… and then, don't already assume that maybe GEF is super correct and others are not. If you have this discrepancy, try and investigate a bit why this discrepancy… where does it come from?
Łukasz Rozmej: And… which way you should standardize, right, let's say.
Łukasz Rozmej: That's… that's how I would approach it.
Łukasz Rozmej: If I had to do it.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, so I have something to say. I don't think, like…
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Wouldn't it be better if we don't always rely on GETs to validate?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Can we do something about that? Because GET can be right at every time.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, so, there are two things, right? We need to define the spec, because it's not defined as a spec, right? So that should be the goal, in my opinion, to define the spec.
Łukasz Rozmej: And now, GEF is a good starting point, because,
Łukasz Rozmej: GEF is the spec to some extent, because there's no spec, and GEF was the main client for so long that it kind of became the spec. So that's why I say it's a very good starting point, but on the other hand, I'm not saying that
Łukasz Rozmej: you should blindly follow Gaff if you see that discrepancy between clients, but then we can investigate that scenario and figure out what the specs should be.
Łukasz Rozmej: But starting with… we need to start with somewhere, and so… that's why I said… and you… I don't expect people to dive into multiple code bases.
Łukasz Rozmej: So, diving into one codebase and generating tests based on that one codebase… This is a starting point.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, just a small point. I… when I was writing the spec, I think, like, a year ago.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: That's exactly what I did. I attached the Excel sheet, but these are very basic tests that I did. I think I extended it at a later point, but I don't have the stored results for that. I was not able to find it, but this is basic ones I did really long back.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But you can see it is testing base over, Aragon, GET, Corally, even chains like zkSync and a few other chains. It's very inconsistent across, at least when I started, maybe there was some sort of standardization?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But it's not written anywhere for the rest of the clients or chains to follow, unless you fork GET or, like, you work really closely with GET.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: The goal now is, at least let's write it down so some, you know, everyone has some place where they can look this up and follow it up, rather than diving into one code piece, like you mentioned. Get.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, that's a good date…
Łukasz Rozmej: a point, let's say, but, how should I read it?
Łukasz Rozmej: Is there a good way… Okay, but for example…
Łukasz Rozmej: Just, just to looking… you, you were doing get balance with the latest parameter, right?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right.
Łukasz Rozmej: If those are in different points of time, you will get different, different,
Łukasz Rozmej: responses, right? Because the balance of this address could change.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, so these are trying to simulate failure cases, mostly, which means, like, if I'm getting an error, what is the error code? I'm… all I'm focusing is on an error code.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah. But again, this is too old. I can try and redo this test with a more expansive use cases, but with the basic ones, at least, like, even the standard ones, we can actually see how different clients are in completely different
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Error messages or error code, or reuse the error code that you can see, minus 32602.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: get balance, also for, like, get code, even for incorrect method name and stuff, so it is… it is non-reliable.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Even forget. We cannot say this one error code means something.
Łukasz Rozmej: This error code means, invalid parameters or something? What's… what's… let me double-check what this is, because I don't know them by heart.
Łukasz Rozmej: So… Where do I have this? Okay… what's set at? Nevermind.
Łukasz Rozmej: Aww… Yeah, this is invalid params, right? So it's a very generic error code.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: So, if the parameters are invalid, like, you cannot deserialize them, right?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right.
Łukasz Rozmej: And, for example… There might be different, different, reasons, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: But you generally don't… don't… differentiate them.
Łukasz Rozmej: you cannot necessarily ask parameters, yeah, your request is wrong. And maybe we can put in message what exactly is… we have a problem with, and that's…
Łukasz Rozmej: Fine, in my opinion, to some extent.
Łukasz Rozmej: We…
Łukasz Rozmej: not sure if there's point… well, maybe there is a point of doing more detailed, but… yeah, I'm looking at your…
Łukasz Rozmej: Sheets, jumping through bedzo Aragon gaff, and they are more or less returning the same error code in those scenarios.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But even… okay, so, yeah, I… let's do this. I'll actually do more, little more expansive, test cases. I know this one I tried to more, you know, try and simulate more on the basic error codes, rather than diving deep into the
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: execution logic. I wanted to initially check how
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: the standardized error codes that JSON RPC currently uses is being used. Even with that, it's, I can exactly point between which ones are colliding or overlapping.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But I want to actually do… also use this as some feedback and do a bit more execution-based, error codes, and try and simulate, you know, failure error cases.
Łukasz Rozmej: Let me rephrase what I said. So, looking at the sheet you provided.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah. Baz do, Aragon, and Geff, more or less, I'm…
Łukasz Rozmej: It's hard without a proper, like, diff, on that. More or less, return the same errors.
Łukasz Rozmej: Anything obvious when they return different error codes.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: True, but also, the same error codes for different methods.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, yeah, but if… okay, but if an error code is an invalid parameter, it's regardless of the method, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: If you cannot deserialize parameters for a method, that's a generic error code that can be used from different methods.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: True, true.
Łukasz Rozmej: And this is the most one that you, that you have.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah, that's the most one I'm actually trying to look for, because it's been long, I'm trying to remember which one.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: for example, if you get… if you take the ETH estimate gas on, let's say, BESU, and it's returning minus 32,000, saying execution reverted. It doesn't say why it was reverted, I actually don't know what was the simulation.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, okay, okay, and…
Łukasz Rozmej: That's what I was saying about the complex error codes, because this goes and spin-ups the VM. VM, VM does,
Łukasz Rozmej: its thing, and then it reverts, right? In DVM. And there are my.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: multiple things why this thing is reverted. It might be a revert opcode directly from the contract, and this revert opcode might have some data attached or not.
Łukasz Rozmej: Or it might be out of gas, probably, might result in the same thing, or it might be something else. So, now it gets complex, and this is completely unspecified. Right. Right.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: No, no, true, I agree. Yeah, that's why I want to do more execution-based tests, but if you look at the same error code in ZKEVM, you would see that for even
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: wrong parameter. For example, if you take invalid block parameter format.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Line 20. It's using the same error code for non-execution-based.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, okay, got it, but that's the KV, I'm saying. Okay, I… you… you're going beyond Ethereum clients, okay? I don't have… I don't have an idea about beyond Ethereum clients, so yeah, that's where I agree with you, sure. Right.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So this is going to, like, this is sort of like a guide for everyone, any client, any chain, to be like, hey, we have a standard that exists, please try and follow the standard. Even we are in a position where we can
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: work with, like, really nascent chains, EVM chains, and say, hey, please follow the standards so all the dApps can, you know, by default, work with you without doing any modifications.
Łukasz Rozmej: Got it, I do agree, especially if you, like, start,
Łukasz Rozmej: adding, like, niche implementations, right, to the mix. This may make sense. What I was saying was more from perspective of established
Łukasz Rozmej: Right, right, no.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Definitely.
Łukasz Rozmej: premium client.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: The Big Five, let's say.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Makes sense, yeah. No, definitely, I agree. I'll also try and do more tests and see if I can find any inconsistencies between even the big five,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But yeah, so the point was, like.
Łukasz Rozmej: some, but I would say it's not as bad as you might think.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, right. No, I agree, but the goal is for cross-EVM chains, like EVM…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: All EVM chains or EVM clients should be standardized. How we expect the whole JSON method standardization?
Łukasz Rozmej: Expecting payers.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: as well.
Łukasz Rozmej: But where those other EVM clients…
Łukasz Rozmej: come from… most of them are forks of… of GEF.
Łukasz Rozmej: They might be… they might be stale forks of GEF, so they are not updated, right? And that might be one of the problems, why, for example, maybe GEF standardized something, or fixed something, and they don't have that fix, or standardization. Not sure about ZitKey VMs.
Łukasz Rozmej: That's a good question, but ZKVMs now, most of them would also run… a customly compiled
Łukasz Rozmej: EVM…
Łukasz Rozmej: implementation that would also come from Big Five and maybe EVM1, or ATRX, which is also, like, a newer client, right? But I think they mostly run compiled REF at the moment.
Łukasz Rozmej: I know because we are trying to compile Nevermind to this format, at the moment, we have a big initiative around that, and hopefully will also join soon.
Łukasz Rozmej: Gef is also being compiled, I think, to 64-bit, RISC-V. So those, those implement… those… those implementations that are running compiled.
Łukasz Rozmej: let's say Ethereum client code will inherit the Ethereum client properties in this regard.
Łukasz Rozmej: I think. I'm not sure if they will.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, they'll be… Okay, maybe, maybe, maybe they need a bit of additional code, additional instrumentation there.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, some things I've noticed…
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, that's a question mark, then, on my side, but they could, they could potentially inherit that.
Łukasz Rozmej: to some.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah. No, sometimes I've noticed, some of these chains run just an RPC layer on top.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Just to do certain sequencer-based validations, or add a few more functionality, and they sort of return completely different error messages and codes just because they're running, like, a RPC
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: wrap layer on top of any existing clients, like Geth or any other fork. So, the goal is for them to also, say, either use already standardized
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: follow the spec, because SPEC also follows the big five clients. That's why we are working with the Ethereum Foundation, to make sure, you know, this is set as a standard so everyone can follow, and
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So cute. It's just…
Łukasz Rozmej: What, for example, if you have two problems, like gas price too low and non-s too low? Do you want to define that in this scenario, you have to return one over the other, or, like, a priority, like I said, the order of…
Łukasz Rozmej: Validations, or whatever you want.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: You know, that's up to the clients. At the end of the day, whatever the clients, I mean, we're not trying to change the logic of validation, just the value that they're returning. Just add proper…
Łukasz Rozmej: Your existing validation will remain the same. You need to be very precise in your tests, if you write tests after that, if you provide, and in my opinion, with a spec, there should be a test set provided, to… when you're doing the test, that only this one thing has to be wrong in the request.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, yeah, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: Because if there will be more than one, because if there will be more than one, then you can get discrepancy between,
Łukasz Rozmej: between the results, and it will only spawn confusion, and people will just say that those tests are garbage, because, for example, they returned the thing in GEF order, and Nevermind has a bit different order, and now the tests fail, right?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right.
Łukasz Rozmej: And it will be just frustration.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: No, completely agree, because, we've been talking about this a bit, too, because DD…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: The test negative, especially the negative test case, is not going to be straightforward, and
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: It's going to cause a lot of confusion, so…
Łukasz Rozmej: Depends which ones. The simple ones are not that bad. Get a proper working case and just change one thing, right?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right. And you… you can get something relatively easily.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: targeted, right? Let's say. The more complex ones that involve execution, yeah, those are a lot harder to craft.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, execution ones and consensus ones are really hard to achieve, definitely. Yeah, we haven't gone to that stage yet, writing negative test cases. Hopefully, with the test I'm going to do across clients, may come as a base for the future.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But right now, goal is, like, non-restrictive spec documentation out there, so people start looking at it and start using it.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And then, we'll have the test, to make sure that they slowly start being compliant to these specs. It's not a spec, like, that's why we didn't write it as an EIP. It's more like a suggestion and guide for now.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: We are not making it restrictive that you should return this code. Again, because it's almost impossible to make sure, like you said, the order of validation and making sure, we cover all the use cases, all the scenarios of errors,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: for any client. So, for now, the goal is keep it simple, at least the major ones, the client, the dApps or wallets uses, and rely, on those errors to do some reactive logic.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: We're just focusing on that, at least for now, so at least that part will be seamless and making it easy, and then move on to complicate it slowly. That's why the spec is expandable for the future.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But I'll work on the test, that's definitely a good feedback, really appreciate that. It's also going to give me some points, to modify the spec if I need to. Well, I'll work on the spec, the test.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, yeah, it looks…
Łukasz Rozmej: So that, looking at this current spec, it is okay, but it's very, very minimal at the moment, right?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, no, very true. Yeah, we'll be keeping it very minimal, intentionally, like, just the ones that is being used by the apps, our clients.
Łukasz Rozmej: Mmm.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, we can… we can discuss more, we can cover more tests, or more error codes, results…
Łukasz Rozmej: It might be good to… in the general one, just one thing, it might be good to expand a bit what is parseller, invalid request, invalid params, how do…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Those are standardized.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, so those are…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: standardized already… Yeah, I know, I know, I know. Yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: We can, you can do that too, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, they are standardized by… aha, okay, JSON RFPC spec, okay, got it.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, right. Yeah, we are not touching that range.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay, cool. Got it. And that's fine. I didn't even know that they are standardized there.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, they have, like, two implementation standard and just spec standard.
Łukasz Rozmej: Okay.
Łukasz Rozmej: Got it.
Łukasz Rozmej: Then that's fine, yeah, but like I said, for,
Łukasz Rozmej: Ethereum clients, this is not really that useful, what you have there.
Łukasz Rozmej: For the main ones, right? Because I think… Almost everything should be… Like that already.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: There might be an exception here or two, but you won't find it until you write the tests.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right.
Łukasz Rozmej: And around it.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, so, I mean, I was initially thinking of changing the error codes to be in, like, an order within the range for now.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: there is no particular range defining these, categories, right? Like, gas errors are not belong… it's not belonging to, let's say, 32,000 to 32,200.
Łukasz Rozmej: But you want to change the existing error codes?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, yes.
Łukasz Rozmej: Oh… man.
Łukasz Rozmej: I think that's already… You know…
Łukasz Rozmej: like, you would have to change both the Ethereum client, and then all the users of those server codes.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right. I mean, currently the… no one uses the error codes, as far as I know, because it's not… it's not reliably…
Łukasz Rozmej: That's a variable statement.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: I…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: I'm working… just a bit of a context, I'm from Chainlink Labs. We work with so many EVM chains, right? And,
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: at least, personally, I have worked with, like, 50, 60 EVM chains.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And for 95% to 98% of the chains, we don't use error codes at all. We rely on, string regex mapping internally, to react to these errors, because… mainly because
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Even the RPC clients, just like an RPC provider, have their own wrapper, return completely different error code for a different… for any error message. So, we don't use it. And as far as I've spoken…
Łukasz Rozmej: devs did it, core devs did it properly, and then RPC providers and users fucked it up.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, even for core devs, but there is no definition written down anywhere, right? No spec or document saying, hey, if this is their code, which means this is going to be the behavior, and that's what we want to achieve, at least, like.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: pointer, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: Got it.
Łukasz Rozmej: So you say that if we remap the error codes, that work would be mostly on the… on us, on the core developers, and potentially, like, our PC providers, but, the thing with remapping is that,
Łukasz Rozmej: There will be a lot of inconsistencies, like, in between flights, people running different versions, and that would cause even more chaos, to some extent.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: No, I… yeah, definitely agree. I'll also think about it, how we can… sort of…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Make sure there's not break. Again, right, at least for initial couple of versions…
Łukasz Rozmej: There are so many numbers, there are so many numbers that you can say, up to this point, those are legacy error codes, and they were defined before, and now we are defining new error codes in this, in this…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, right.
Zane Starr: Right. Legacy.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Legacy. Yeah.
Zane Starr: So, like, yeah, we could try and do it in a way that it's, like, it just keeps it…
Zane Starr: Right.
Zane Starr: The old values as exceptionals, and then…
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, that's what I meant.
Zane Starr: Yeah, yeah, and then…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, we can do that.
Zane Starr: We should say, from this time forward on, we are no longer doing that.
Zane Starr: Yeah, that might actually be best, because I'm thinking about like… if…
Zane Starr: a producer or consumer is aware of something happening, then they're probably… there's always someone that's relying on it, that, like, in a weird way that you wouldn't know.
Łukasz Rozmej: Exactly.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yep.
Łukasz Rozmej: I'm thinking, can you have two error codes for the same code, one in legacy, one in NOT, but not really, that wouldn't work out well.
Zane Starr: Oh…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And, initially, we're not going to force, clients or anyone to, you know, fail the validations of, let's say, high validations or RPC test gen. At least for a couple of versions, it'll be a
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Guide, saying, hey, we're not expecting this error code for this range, so try and change it, and then slowly start, you know, at least for the basic ones, start moving to
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Stricter implementations.
Łukasz Rozmej: Like I said, implementing those basic error codes is very simple. Sometimes, when those are those deeper that come from when you get to virtual machine execution, and then you need to map that to error code, that's where
Łukasz Rozmej: Most of the problems come in.
Łukasz Rozmej: Similarly… and you do that in a lot of places, because you do that in simple ETH vehicle or gas estimate, but you also do it… Right.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Same transaction.
Łukasz Rozmej: for example, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: A said transaction goes to a transaction pool, so you don't execute it directly. Right, right.
Łukasz Rozmej: But, yeah, so there are different cases of that that might also differ. Now there's ETH Simulate, which is…
Łukasz Rozmej: Big piece of its own,
Łukasz Rozmej: complicated. I think we… we did pretty well define error codes there for the…
Łukasz Rozmej: ETH simulation part, but simulation also involves running a virtual machine, and again, those error codes bubble… can bubble up from there.
Łukasz Rozmej: In some regards, maybe not, I don't remember. Or maybe they are… they would be… covered. Okay, I don't remember. Yes, there are so many details that…
Łukasz Rozmej: I, I… it's hard to grasp everything.
Łukasz Rozmej: Mmm… Yeah, okay. That's my feedback, I think.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Oh, no, really appreciate, I'll… I have some…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: stuff that I need to do on my end, but…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, at least the goal is, let's do…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Basic, simpler codes make everyone's life a little bit easier.
Łukasz Rozmej: And slowly move on to see how we can expand this, and that's intentionally left out.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: the reserved range. We still have the ranges that you can use, people can still relay on them.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But then slowly move towards using this as a base or a guide, and we all, of course, is gonna contribute and set the actual number or value.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And we can actually keep adding it. Let's say Basu has a special use case and only BASO returns in the future. We can add it to the pre-reserved ranges. Of course, it's going to be a version bump. People can start relying on it. If not.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Send a completely new error message, but at least the ones that everyone is going to rely on across
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: different clients.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: is, at least we need to standardize that, because it's, again, like I mentioned, doing 60-plus EVM chains as an org, we've done more than 100 chains, but we haven't used this ever in any of the use cases or scenarios.
Łukasz Rozmej: That's not what I would expect.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So, yeah, that's exactly what I'm trying to fix.
Łukasz Rozmej: In my opinion, when people not using them is why they are not being respected.
Łukasz Rozmej: Like I said, and I disagree that people are not using them, because we did have some…
Łukasz Rozmej: tickets to… to align our error codes with GEF, so…
Łukasz Rozmej: So… there are definitely some people using it.
Łukasz Rozmej: And I think that the biggest
Łukasz Rozmej: biggest challenge for you would be getting our board RPC providers.
Łukasz Rozmej: And making them compliant.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah, it's going to be a little difficult, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: making client devs, a bit, like I said, like I said, big five.
Łukasz Rozmej: is trivial. We would love to have it. We would love to have tests, so it will show us where we are not compliant.
Łukasz Rozmej: But… Rpc, if they have their own rappers, and the rappers do whatever they want, then…
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, that's on them, and they need to fix that by themselves, so…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, definitely. This is a long goal, like, implementing a standard is never easy, but at least we have good communi- you know, communication with most of these RPC party providers.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And personal relationships with chains, where we can, you know, say, hey, now, Ethereum Foundation has a standard, and we work based on this standard.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So, we sort of come in like a middleman and saying, please work with the standard so it's easy for everyone.
Łukasz Rozmej: Again, I think you need those test suits, because if you just say them, oh, this is displayed, please, please comply, and they would say, yeah, whatever, and if you say, oh, this is the, test suit that every client, if you run them locally, every major client.
Łukasz Rozmej: complies with, and you just don't, and we can run it on your endpoint and see you don't.
Łukasz Rozmej: Then, That may, you know, budge them a bit. And it's… and for the.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Oh, yeah.
Łukasz Rozmej: For the simpler error code, I think it's not that much of a work on their side to become.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right, right.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, the end goal is implementing this in the Hive test and incorporating this in the Fortnite test that runs, I think. I'm not fully sure, but yeah, the end goal is get this included…
Łukasz Rozmej: But I also mean you need to… like, we have a…
Łukasz Rozmej: page for HiveTest, you need to target the, Alchemy, Infura, etc, and, as a test there, to some extent. Okay, it might be hard, because some are state… some of those will be state-based.
Łukasz Rozmej: But some are not, so at least with that, with the stateless tests.
Łukasz Rozmej: That's, like, you send a transaction with invalid nons, that's a stateless test, right?
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Right.
Łukasz Rozmej: If you have… small amount of gas on… they have a private key, right? Whatever, you can probably…
Łukasz Rozmej: do that, right?
Łukasz Rozmej: So you can send a valid signed transaction.
Łukasz Rozmej: And this is, like, doesn't cost much.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, so for the, for the basic things, you should also, like, you know, put them on the pedestal, yeah, you're, you're, you know, you're, you're the problem here, right? And fix it.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: That's what they mean.
Łukasz Rozmej: Like, you, you need a bit of a stick to…
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: No, agreed. Yeah, definitely, we'll start working on the test. I was just trying to gather, more feedback on the proposal, so I don't have to rewrite the test, but testers are definitely the next step to this.
Łukasz Rozmej: I'm fine with a proposal, I find it basic,
Łukasz Rozmej: like, from my perspective, never mind that I expect it's mostly compliant with it already.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: It would be good to have a test case when, if we're not compliant, like.
Łukasz Rozmej: 3 or 4 of those, we would probably change immediately.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Oh yeah, yeah, that's definitely coming.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Thank you.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: I do want to give back some time if anyone has any other opinions or some other topics we want to discuss, Mercy. I really appreciate the feedback.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Thanks so much.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, sure.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: I don't have any other thing to discuss, just, I need to,
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Kerry, I don't know, there was a chat,
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: on Discord about the ROPC test suite. So, Sina did ask for regular updates so that
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: they can track the process in resolving the issue, and then if you can, like, summarize the differences that needs to be addressed. So I don't know if you can, like, work this out behind the scenes, and then we'll get back to Sina on this. I don't know if you saw the chat.
keri: I didn't, but I, I have a spreadsheet going, so I can…
keri: Okay, okay. Was that this week, or last week?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Can you just send me a DM, or I'll kind of.
keri: I see. Oh, gotcha.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Thank you.
keri: Gotcha. Yeah, yeah.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Bye.
keri: Yep.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay, that's all from my end. I don't know if someone else has something to say.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: It flies up on the floor wrap up.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Alright, I guess that's all for today. Thank you all for joining, and it was really nice getting all this feedback. Thank you, Luca.
Łukasz Rozmej: Yeah, sure, no problem.
Zane Starr: Alright, bye guys. Thanks, everyone. Peace.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Amazing. Thank you, Shane.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Bye.
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Bye.